Start a projects page for UROP/MEng (#43)
JuliaLabs/julialabs.github.io: projects.md

# Projects (MEng/UROP)

If you are interested in any of these projects and are a current MIT student looking for a UROP or MEng please reach out
to the mentor listed next to project.

## Methods in Scientific Machine Learning

A large list of projects in scientific machine learning can be found at https://sciml.ai/dev/#projects_lists. Take that

> list as an set of ideas from which larger projects cna be chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
list as a set of ideas from which larger projects can be chosen.

```

## Julia Compiler/Runtime for HPC
Mentor: Valentin Churavy

We have many projects for working on compiler or runtimes in the context of scientific computing, the topics below can
serve as inspiration.

### Accelerated computing

> - Caching for GPU compilation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- GPU kernel caching
```

> - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### KernelAbstractions.jl
#### AMDGPU.jl

> Mentor: Julian Samaroo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mentor: Julian Samaroo

- Implement support for various ROCm libraries: rocSOLVER, rocSPARSE, MIOpen, etc.
- Build ROCm libraries as JLLs
- Explore integration with ROCm debugging and profiling tooling
```

### Compiler based automatic-differentiation -- Enzyme.jl

[Enzyme.jl](https://github.com/EnzymeAD/Enzyme.jl) is the Julia frontend to the Enzyme automatic-differentiation engine.

- Improved JIT compilation for Enzyme
  - Compile on Demand / Parallel JIT
  - Caching of Enzyme AD results
  - Caching of inference results for reducing inital latency 

> - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### General Julia compiler infrastructure

> - Better native debug-information (DWARF).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Better native debug-information (DWARF)
```

> - Debug-information on demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Debug-information on demand
```

- Exploring profile-guided optimization

## CESMIX

> ### Accelerate learning by automatically reducing the size of the training dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Accelerate learning by automatically reducing the size of the training dataset
```

> Feasibility study on reducing the size of an a-HfO2 dataset using a parallel method based on HDBSCAN and ACE. A parallel Julia implementation of a state of the art method will be required as well as the proposal of an improved version aligned to [CESMIX](https://computing.mit.edu/cesmix/) objectives.

Reviewer: This is too wordy, and thus intimidating, compared to the other projects on this page.

Description [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SWAanEWQkpsbr2lqetMO3uvdX_QK-Z7dwrgPaM1Dl0o/edit?usp=sharing). 

> Contact: Emmanuel Lujan. eljn at mit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mentor: Emmanuel Lujan (eljn AT mit DOT edu)
```
